.\" man page for libstash
.\" Contact webb.clint@gmail.com to correct errors or omissions. 
.TH libstash 3 "23 October 2010" "0.07.00" "libstash - Library for accessing a Stash data storage service."
.SH NAME
libstash - library for accessing and making requests of an stash data storage service.
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stash.h>
.sp
// initialisation and cleanup
.br
stash_t * 
.B stash_init
(stash_t *stash);
.br
void 
.B stash_shutdown
(stash_t *stash);
.br
void 
.B stash_free
(stash_t *stash);
.sp
// queries
.br
stash_query_t * 
.B stash_query_new
(stash_nsid_t nsid, stash_tableid_t tid);
.br
void 
.B stash_query_free
(stash_query_t *query);
.br
void 
.B stash_query_condition
(stash_query_t *query, stash_cond_t *condition);
.br
void 
.B stash_query_limit
(stash_query_t *query, int limit);
.br
void
.B stash_query_sort
(stash_query_t *query, stash_keyid_t keyid, int desc);
.br
void 
.B stash_query_sort_clear
(stash_query_t *query);
.br
stash_reply_t * 
.B stash_query_execute
(stash_t *stash, stash_query_t *query);
.br
.sp
compile with the 
.B -lstash -llinklist 
option
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B libstash
is a comprehensive library used to connect and interact with a stash data storage service.
.SS Initialization 
.B stash_init()
is used to initialise a stash object, or create one if the parameter is NULL.  It will return a pointer to an initialised stash object, that will then be used for most stash operations.
.SS "Shutdown and Cleanup"
.B stash_shutdown()
is used to shutdown all connections to the stash service, and 
.B stash_free() 
is used to free up all the resources allocated in the stash object, and if the stash object was created by stash_init(), it will free up the stash object too.
.SS "Generating Queries"
.B stash_query_new()
is used to create a new query object, and
.B stash_query_free()
is used to destroy it.
.B stash_query_condition()
is used to set a condition on the query, along with
.B stash_query_limit()
setting a limit on the number of rows to return.
.B stash_query_sort()
sets sortation criteria on the query.  If a limit is set, then sorting is done on the server, otherwise sorting is done by the client 
when all data has been received.  There may be a need to clear a sort criteria on a query, 
.B stash_query_sort_clear() will clear (and free) the sort criteria of the query.
.sp
.B stash_query_execute()
executes the query and will return a reply structure.
.sp

.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR stash_t (3),
.BR stash_query_t (3).
.br
.BR stash_init (3),
.BR stash_shutdown (3),
.BR stash_free (3).
.br
.BR stash_query_new (3),
.BR stash_query_free (3), 
.BR stash_query_condition (3),
.BR stash_query_limit (3), 
.BR stash_query_sort (3),
.BR stash_query_sort_clear (3),
.BR stash_query_execute (3).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Clint Webb (webb.clint@gmail.com)
.fi
