.\" man page for libstash
.\" Contact webb.clint@gmail.com to correct errors or omissions. 
.TH stash_query_execute 3 "28 October 2010" "0.07.00" "libstash - Library for accessing a Stash data storage service."
.SH NAME
stash_query_execute - Execute a query that has been generated.
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stash.h>
.sp
stash_reply_t * 
.B stash_query_execute
(stash_t *stash, stash_query_t *query);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stash_query_execute()
is used to execute a query that has been generated.  It will always return a pointer to a 
.B stash_reply_t
that will need to be returned with 
.B stash_return_reply().

.sp
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
void process(stash_t *stash, stash_nsid_t nsid, stash_tableid_t tid)
{
    stash_reply_t *reply;
    stash_keyid_t key_username, key_count, key_fullname;
    stash_cond_t *cond;
    stash_query_t *query;

    // get the keyID's of the keys we will be using.
    key_username  = stash_get_key_id(stash, nsid, tid, "username");
    key_count     = stash_get_key_id(stash, nsid, tid, "count");
    key_fullname  = stash_get_key_id(stash, nsid, tid, "fullname");

    // this condition will return all rows that have both a 
    // username of 'freddy0077' and have a key called 'count' 
    // with a value greater than 5.
    cond = __cond_and(
               __cond_key_equals(key_username, __value_str("freddy0077")),
               __cond_key_gt(key_count, __value_int(5))
           );

    // create a new query object.
    query = stash_query_new(nsid, tid);

    // set a limit, we only want (or expect 1 row)
    stash_query_limit(query, 1);

    // set the condition for the query.
    stash_query_condition(query, cond);

    // execute the query and print the results.
    reply = stash_query_execute(stash, query);
    if (reply->resultcode != STASH_ERR_OK) {
        printf("Unable to query row, %d:'%s'.\n", 
            reply->resultcode, stash_err_text(reply->resultcode));
    }
    else {
        if (stash_nextrow(reply)) {

            // display the fullname from the record.
            printf("fullname:'%s'\n", stash_getstr(reply, key_fullname);
        }
        else {
            printf("No records returned\n");
        }
    }

    // when we are done we need to return the reply object, 
    // free the query, and free the condition.
    stash_return_reply(reply);
    stash_query_free(query);
    stash_cond_free(cond);
}
.fi


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR stash_query_t (3),
.BR stash_query_limit (3), 
.BR stash_query_condition (3),
.BR stash_reply_t (3),
.BR stash_return_reply (3),
.BR libstash (3),
.BR stash_cond_t (3).
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Clint Webb (webb.clint@gmail.com)
.fi
